[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
dan walker and louise minchin
the headline is for you at six o'clock
this morning ministers moved to calm
concerns about the oxford astrazeneca
jab after early research suggested it's
less effective
against the south african variant of the
virus
more new vaccine centers open as the uk
moves closer to hitting the target of
gifting
giving 15 million people in a week's
time
the desperate search for more than a
hundred in india after the collapse of a
himalayan glacier triggers a huge flood
good morning when you can go on tour but
not stay on tour should musicians and
crews be given special access visas for
the eu
some of our biggest stars take the case
to parliament ronan keating tells us
why the government can't say nothing at
all
history for tom brady with his seventh
super bowl
win making him the oldest player at 43
on the winning side this time with tampa
bay
across buccaneers dorm darcy brings snow
to many
this is the scene in essex this morning
and there's more snow on the way today
the metro office has two
amber weather warnings out one for the
southeastern east anglia
another for the north midlands
lincolnshire and parks of
yorkshire it's going to be bitterly cold
wherever you are and some of that snow
will be blowing i'll have all the
details later in the programme
good morning it's monday it's the 8th of
february the top story for you this
morning is that the vaccines minister
has said uk scientists are rising to the
challenge of new covid variants
after a study suggested the oxford jab
was less effective
against the milder symptoms of the south
african strain nadim zahawi said the
vaccine remains
a vital part of our fight against covid
and that it may be updated to block
new mutations he made the comments as
more vaccine centers are opened across
england dan johnson has the story
but first of all the race to arm the
nation against coronavirus
is stepping up another gear with 18 new
vaccination centers opening today across
england
elland road's seen some pretty special
shots on goal over the years
now the leeds united stadium is also
helping give a shot in the arm
boosting the effort to give the top four
priority groups
part one of their vaccination by this
time next week
that's all those over 70 people who are
clinically extremely vulnerable
care home residents and staff who work
there as well as frontline health and
social care workers
there's a week to go but we are on
target to offer 15 million first doses
maybe more the numbers do seem to be
very impressive and
and that's great news but i i think the
really key issue is that
it's not just a question of numbers it's
it's getting the banks and doses into
the right people
um and that is being achieved i think
we're seeing very high
percentages of people in their 80s now
covered and now increasing numbers of
people in their 70s and
the age particularly older age groups
that's the really powerful predictor of
risk
in the last 24-hour period just under
550 000 people had a first dose of one
of the three
approved vaccines that takes the overall
number who've had their first job
to just over 12 million there are
questions
over how much protection these vaccines
will give against new variants of the
virus
emerging here and in other countries
modified vaccines
and booster jabs are likely to be needed
to beat mutations
that could help the virus keep spreading
for a long time yet
dan johnson bbc news
yeah plenty to talk about with regards
to that today we'll be talking to the
health minister edward argat half
past seven this morning live on
breakfast south africa is suspending its
rollout of the oxford astrazeneca
vaccine after a study showed
disappointing results against a variant
of coronavirus which was first
identified there
the trial suggests the vaccine offers
only limited protection against mild
symptoms caused by the variant
the manufacturer says it's not yet
established whether the jab
would prevent severe disease and
hospitalization
it's a temporary issue that we we we
have to um
hold on to uh ultrasonic uh astrazeneca
it is temporary until we figure out
these issues what are the next steps
supposed to be
at least 11 people are dead and 145 are
missing after a piece
of a himalayan glacier fell into a river
and triggered a huge flood in northern
india
the flood waters burst open a dam then
deluged a valley
where a huge rescue operation is in
place our south asia correspondent
rajini vaidyanathan has the details
this dramatic footage shows when the
nanda devi glacier in the himalayas
burst on sunday morning
as water gushed down the valley damage
and destruction
about 50 to 100 people were running for
their lives but
couldn't be saved and they were engulfed
by the river
the situation here is still dangerous
people are leaving their homes and
fleeing towards the forest
with flood waters rising and roads and
homes destroyed
an urgent rescue operation was underway
hundreds of members of the indian
military and disaster response units
have been deployed to the area
approximately 125 people could be
missing as per the estimates
but it could rise because the power
company is unable to give the exact
figures
everyone is busy in the rescue
operations
a moment of hope as workers rescued one
man from this tunnel
but dozens more is still feared trapped
officials say two power plants employing
more than 150 people
were also hit many of the workers remain
unaccounted for
hospitals are on standby
in a tweet india's prime minister
narendra modi said he was constantly
monitoring the situation
india stands with uttarakhand he said
regina vaidyanathan bbc news
delhi now there's been
plenty of snow overnight in the east and
the southeast of england there's a
so-called beast from the east yes it's
back
uh keeps temperatures around freezing
our reporter ben bland
is in clacton on sea in essex forest
this morning um it's a seaside result
not really looking like that right now
morning
yeah today is not the day to head down
to the beach louise
and the big effect it's having here
is on vaccination centers across
essex the main site at clacton hospital
is closed it closed early yesterday and
will stay closed for today
also the main site at the stadium in
colchester the sports centre in ipswich
and the main covid vaccination center
embarrassing edmonds as well
now people who have appointments
those will be cancelled and they're
being advised to call 119
to try and rebook those the other
centers
uh smaller centers may well still be
open but people are being told that if
they've got concerns about
being able to get there and back safely
don't take risks
call 119 cancel and rebook it for
another time
in terms of the weather itself there is
an amber weather warning in place for
norfolk suffolk essex kent and medway
and that's in place until lunchtime
today now that means that disruption to
travel
and power cuts are likely snow and ice
expected to be with us
right through until wednesday of course
one of the things we often talk about is
school closures
they're closed for most pupils anyway
but if you're a key worker
and your children do go to school check
the social media channels and also
listen to bbc local radio station
if you're homeschooling well i guess
it's up to you if you call it a snow day
thank you very much thank you uh tesco
azda and morrisons are among the major
retailers calling for online stores like
amazon to pay more tax once the pandemic
has finished
they've written to the chancellor sunak
asking for what they call a more
level playing field our business
correspondent katie prescott reports
another consequence of the pandemic
online retailers are doing a roaring
trade
while high street stores have had to
close senior figures who run and own 10
000 bricks and mortar shops are
questioning whether traditional tax
structures on the value of property
still makes sense as tax on shops is
often far higher
than warehouses there are some of those
businesses that uh
unless they get to a fairer position in
terms of how they're trading
uh in respect of online retailing which
gets a very
easy ride currently with the current
business trade system unless we can get
to a fairer position and this situation
as i say
started before the pandemic could have
been really exacerbated in the last year
this situation is only going to get
worse and people are going to see their
high streets
i'm afraid looking even less healthy and
vibrant than
they perhaps were before in a letter to
government they've said nearly 15 000
jobs in the sector have already been
lost
and more could follow even before covert
19 the current system
penalized physical shops reducing
business rates for retailers and
rebalancing the tax system to ensure
online retailers pay a fair share of tax
would provide a vital boost to bricks
and mortar retailers
and support communities in need of
leveling up
there is currently a review of business
rates underway
and the government said it will consider
the case for introducing an online sales
tax
as part of it katie prescott bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live
in the app and get the full story with
bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news